# 生産的なコミュニケーション

1. Avoid large meetings (大規模な会議を避ける)
2. Leave a meeting if you’re not contributing (貢献できない会議から退出する)
3. Forget the chain of command (指揮系統を忘れる。上司を経由せずに直接連絡する)
4. Be clear, not clever (巧妙さよりも明確さ)
5. Ditch frequent meetings (頻繁に会議しない)
6. Use common sense (常識を働かせる。規則よりも原則に従う)

## 1. Avoid large meetings

Large meetings waste valuable time and energy.

-   They discourage debate
-   People are more guarded than open
-   There’s not enough time for everyone to contribute

Don’t schedule large meetings unless you’re certain they provide value to everyone.

## 2. Leave a meeting if you’re not contributing

If a meeting doesn’t require your:

-   Input
-   Value
-   Decisions

Your presence is useless.

It’s not rude to leave a meeting.

But it’s rude to waste people’s time.

## 3. Forget the chain of command

Communicate with colleagues directly.

Not through supervisors or managers.

Fast communicators make fast decisions.

Fast decisions = competitive advantage.

## 4. Be clear, not clever

Avoid nonsense words and technical jargon.

It slows down communication.

Choose words that are:

-   Concise
-   To the point
-   Easy to understand

Don’t sound smart. Be efficient.

## 5. Ditch frequent meetings

There’s no better way to waste everyone’s time.

Use meetings to:

-   Collaborate
-   Attack issues head-on
-   Solve urgent problems

But once you resolve the issue, frequent meetings are no longer necessary.

You can resolve most issues without a meeting.

Instead of meetings:

-   Send a text
-   Send an email
-   Communicate on a discord or slack channel

Don’t interrupt your team’s workflow if it’s unnecessary.

## 6. Use common sense

If a company rule doesn’t:

-   Make sense
-   Contribute to progress
-   Apply to your specific situation

Avoid following the rule with your eyes closed.

Don’t follow rules. Follow principles.

## Source

https://twitter.com/LiamKircher/status/1592866981145104385
